1) What are the dom properties and methods?
Dom property is the value that we can set to an object. Whereas, Dom method is the action we want to perform.
Ex: document.getElementById("demo").innerHTML = "Hello World!";
Here, getElementById is the method and innerHTML is the the property.

2) What is BOM (Browser Object Model)?
Browsers feature a Browser Object Model (BOM) that allows access and manipulation of the browser window. Using the BOM, developers can move the window, change text in the status bar, and perform other actions that do not directly relate to the page content.

3)Ajax in Javascript
AJAX stands for Asynchronous JavaScript and XML. It uses the XMLHttpRequest object to communicate with server-side scripts. It can send as well as receive information in a variety of formats, including JSON, XML, HTML, and even text files. It uses Javacript and HTML DOM to display the data.

4)What is jQuery?
jQuery is a javascript library and it makes easier to use javascript on our websites

5)Can jQuery do some work, what javascript cannot do?
No, jQuery cannot do work that javascript cannot do. Because, jQuery is a library of javascript.

6) What is $ in jQuery?
$ in jQuery is used as a selector to find the elements. 
Ex: $("p")--> This finds all the <p> elements

7) Differences between jQuery versions 1.x vs 2.x vs 3.x?
Versions of 2.x leave behind the older Internet Explorer 6, 7, and 8 browsers. In return they are smaller, faster, and can be used in JavaScript environments where the code needed for old-IE compatibility often causes problems of its own.

In Jquery 3.x there are several changes. They are:
-->For of loop is introduced to loop over iterable objects like arrays, map, set , etc
-->It gets rid of the already deprecated context, support, and selector properties
-->It gets rid of the already deprecated load(), unload(), and error() shortcut
methods.
-->The use of bind(), delegate(), unbind(), and undelegate() has been discouraged and no further action was taken
-->The name of the property is in camel-case with no dash while in the previous versions it remained lowercase and retained the dash. It has been changed to align the dataset specifications.
-->The new version of jQuery modifies the meaning of the :visible and :hidden filters. Elements will be considered :visible if they have any layout boxes, including those of zero width and/or height. For example, br elements and inline elements with no content will now be selected by the :visible filter.
-->adds a new signature for the $.get() and the $.post() utility functions to align them to $.ajax()



Homework 24 -- Februrary-08-2016
jQuery methods
.css('propertyName', 'value') --> This method is used to add css styling to an element. 
								  Ex: $("p").css("font-size","24px");
								  The above code sets the font size of all the "p" elements to 24px.

.addClass('classToBeAdded')-->  This method can be used to add class to an element.
								Ex: $("p").addClass("note");

.removeClass('className')--> This method can be used to remove a class of an element.
								Ex: $("p").removeClass("note");

.toggle('className')--> This method can show or hide the styles given by the class to the given 							elements.
						Ex: $("p").toggle('note');

.hide()--> This method hides the given elements if they are visible.
			Ex: $("p").hide();

.show()--> This method shows the given elements if they are hidden.
			Ex: $("p").show();

.toggle()--> This method shows or hides the given elements if they are hidden or visible respectively.
			Ex: $("p").toggle();

.fadeIn(timeInMilliSeconds)--> This method also shows the hidden element but the opacity gradually 								   changes.
							   Ex: $("p").fadeIn(2000);

.fadeOut(timeInMilliSeconds)--> This method also hides the visible element but the opacity gradually 								changes.
							   Ex: $("p").fadeOut(2000);

.insertAfter--> This element inserts HTML elements after each specified element.
				 Ex: $("<h1>Hello world!</h1>").insertAfter("p:first"); //This inserts "Hello world" after the first p element.

.append--> This method appends the specifien content at the end of the given element.
			Ex: $("p").append("<b> Hello world!</b>"); //This append Heloo world at the end of the p element.

what is an Event Handler?
The function that tells what to do when an event occurs is called an event handler.

what is event delegation in java script and jQuery?

how to implement event delegation in javascript and jQuery?

event handler methods
.click--> this method triggers an event when an element is clicked.
.bind--> 
.degelate
.live
.on
changing in jquery



1. What is jQuery?

jQuery is not a programming language but a well written JavaScript code. It is a JavaScript code, which do document traversing, event handling, Ajax interactions and Animations.

2. Why jQuery is needed?

jQuery is needed for the following list:

Used to develop browser compatible web applications
Improve the performance of an application
Very fast and extensible
UI related functions are written in minimal lines of codes
3. Whether jQuery HTML work for both HTML and XML documents?

No, jQuery HTML only works for HTML documents not for XML Documents.

4. What are the methods used to provide effects?

Some of the effects methods are:

Show()
Hide()
Toggle()
FadeIn() and
FadeOut()
5. What is the advantage of using minimized version of jQuery?

Efficiency of web page increases when minimized version of jQuery is used.min.js file will be more than 50% less than the normal js file. Reduction in the file size makes the web page faster.

Jquery
Jquery
6. Is jQuery is a JavaScript or JSON library file?

jQuery is a library of JavaScript file and it consists of DOM, event effects and the Ajax functions. jQuery is said to be a single JavaScript file.

7. Which operating system is more compatible with jQuery?

Mac, Windows and Linux are more compatible with the jQuery.

8. How can we include jQuery library in ASP.Net project?


 
Download the jQuery library from jQuery.com and include that reference in the asp.net page.

9. Which command will give a version of jQuery?

The command $.ui.version returns jQuery UI version.

10. In what scenarios jQuery can be used?

jQuery can be used in following scenarios:

Apply CSS static or dynamic
Calling functions on events
Manipulation purpose
Mainly for Animation effects
11. What is the difference between find and children methods?

Find method is used to find all levels down the DOM tree but children find single level down the DOM tree.

12. What is jQuery connect?

A ‘ jQuery connect’  is a plugin used to connect or bind a function with another  function. Connect is used to execute function from any other function or plugin is executed.

13. How to use connect?

Connect can be used by downloading jQuery connect file from jQuery.com and then include that file in the HTML file. Use $.connect function to connect a function to another function.

14. What are the features of jQuery, has been used in web applications?

jQuery uses features like Sliding, File uploading and accordian in web applications.

15. What are the browser related issues for jQuery?

Browser compatibility of jQuery plugin is an issue and needs lot of time to fix it.

16. Whether we need to add jQuery file in both Master and Content page?

jQuery file should be added to the Master page and can use access from the content page directly without having any reference to it.

17. What are the basic selectors in jQuery?

Following are the basic selectors in jQuery:

Element ID
CSS Name
Tag Name
DOM hierarchy
18. Can we call C# code behind using jQuery?

Yes, we can call C# code from jQuery as it supports .net application.

19. What is the use jQuery.data method?

jQuery.data methods is used to associate the data with the DOM nodes and the objects. This data method makes the jQuery code clear and concise.

20. What is the use of each function in jQuery?

Each function is used to iterate each and every element of an object. It is used to loop DOM elements, arrays and the object properties.

21. What is the difference between size and length of jQuery?

Size and length both returns the number of element in an object. But length is faster than the size because length is a property and size is a method.

22. Can we add more than one ‘document.ready’ function in a page?

Yes, we can add more than one document.ready function in a page. But, body.onload can be added once in a page.

23. What is the use of jQuery load method?

jQuery load method is a powerful AJAX method which is used to load the data from a server and assign the data into the element without loading the page.

24. Whether our own specific characters are used in place of $ in jQuery?

Yes, We can use our own variable in place of $ by using the method called no Conflict () method.


 
var sample = $.noConflict()

25. What are the four parameters used for jQuery Ajax method?

The four parameters are

URL – Need to specify the URL to send the request
type – Specifies type of request(Get or Post)
data – Specifies data to be sent to server
Cache – Whether the browser should cache the requested page
26. What is the use of jQuery filter?

The jQuery filter is used to filter the certain values from the object list based on the criteria. Example is to filter certain products from the master list of products in a cart website.

27. Which program is useful for testing jQuery?

QUnit is used to test jQuery and it is very easy and efficient.

28. What is CDN?

CDN is abbreviated as Content Distribution network and it is said to be a group of companies in different location with network containing copies of data files to maximize bandwidth in accessing the data.

29. What are the two types of CDNs?

There are two types of CDNs:

Microsoft – Load jQuery from Ajax CDN
Google – Load jQuery from Google libraries API
30. Which sign is used as a shortcut for jQuery?

Dollar ($) sign is used as a shortcut for jQuery.

31. Is jQuery is a client or server scripting?

jQuery is a client scripting.

32. What is the script build up by jQuery?

jQuery is a Javascript file and it is single javascript file that contains common DOM, event effects and Ajax functions.

33. How can we debug jQuery?

There are two ways to debug jQuery:

Debugger keyword

Add the debugger to the line from where we have to start debugging and then run Visual Studio in Debug mode with F5 function key.
Insert a break point after attaching the process
34. What are all the ways to include jQuery in a page?

Following are the ways to include jQuery in a page:

Local copy inside script tag
Remote copy of jQuery.com
Remote copy of Ajax API
Local copy of script manager control
Embedded script using client script object
35. What is the use of jQuery.ajax method ()?

jQuery.ajax method is used for asynchronous HTTP requests.

36. Where can we download JQuery?

jQuery javascript can be downloaded from jQuery official website – www.jquery.com

37. Is jQuery is a replacement of JavaScript?

No, jQuery is not a replacement of JavaScript.

38. What is called chaining?

Chaining is used to connect multiple events and functions in a selector.

39. What are the advantages of jQuery?

Following are the advantages of jQuery:

Just a JavaScript enhancement
Coding is simple, clear, reusable
Removal of writing more complex conditions and loops
40. Whether C# code behind can be called from jQuery?

Yes, we can call C# code behind from jQuery.

41. What is the use of jQuery.data() method?

jQuery data method is used to associate data with DOM nodes and JavaScript objects. This method will make a code very concise and neat.

42. What is the difference between onload() and document.ready()?

In a page, we can have only one onload function but we can have more than one document.ready function. Document.ready function is called when DOM is loaded but onload function is called when DOM and images are loaded on the page.

43. What is the use of jQuery each function?

jQuery each function is used to loop through each and every element of the target jQuery object. It is also useful for multi element DOM, looping arrays and object properties.

44. How method can be called inside code behind using jQuery?

$.ajax can be called and by declaring WebMethod inside code behind using jQuery.

45. Which is the fastest selector in jQuery?

ID and Element are the fastest selectors in jQuery.

46. What is the slowest selector in jQuery?

Class selectors are the slowest selectors in jQuery.

47. Where jQuery code is getting executed?

jQuery code is getting executed on a client browser.

48. What is the method used to define the specific character in place of $ sign?

‘NoConflict’ method is used to reference a jQuery and save it in a variable. That variable can be used instead of Sign.

49. Why jQuery is better than JavaScript?

jQuery is a library used for developing Ajax application and it helps to write the code clean and concise. It also handles events, animation and Ajax support applications.

50. What are the types of selectors in jQuery?

There are three types of selectors in jQuery:

CSS Selector
XPath Selector
Custom Selector